while House Democrats and Republicans
strike a deal regarding the coronavirus
aid bill it includes free testing for
Kovach 19 as well as paid sick leave for
those suffering from the virus but House
and Senate Republicans aren't happy they
say House Speaker Nancy Pelosi tried to
smuggle pro-abortion funding into the
original bill correspondent Erik Rosales
reports from Capitol Hill now Eric well
Tracie Republican lawmakers I spoke with
say that the actions of House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi are quote repulsive they
say that speaker Pelosi tried to lobby
for several provisions including up to a
billion dollars to reimburse abortion
labs using federal funds it's political
it's you know it's really quite
disgusting quite frankly Arizona
Republican congresswoman Debbie Lesko
says House Speaker Nancy Pelosi sought
to include a potential way to guarantee
federal funding for abortions into the
coronavirus economic stimulus plan
speaker Pelosi and the leadership of the
Democrat Party are trying to take
advantage of a crisis like coronavirus
done yeah people there's people dying
there's people getting sick and we need
to be serious about this this is above
politics representative Lesko confirms
one was a mandate for up to a billion
dollars to reimburse laboratory claims
which she adds would set a dangerous
precedent of health spending without
protections outlined in the Hyde
Amendment the Hyde Amendment blocks
clinics that perform abortions from
receiving federal funding Democrats have
pushed the Trump administration to end
it since he was elected in 2016 and
that's not all
not only pro-abortion provisions but
things pet projects that Democrats have
been wanting to pass for years and they
thought okay this is our chance let's
get it in here lawmakers say the Hyde
Amendment provision was eventually
removed from the stimulus bill
Republican senator Ben Sasse from
Nebraska issued this statement to EWTN
while schools are closing and hospitals
are gearing up speaker Pelosi is waging
unnecessary culture wars
speaker Pelosi should be fighting the
corona virus pandemic not politicizing
emergency funding by fighting against
the bipartisan high
amendment SAS went on to state we need
to be ramping up our diagnostic testing
not waging culture wars at the behest a
Planned Parenthood good grief
it's important to note that EWTN tried
to get a comment from the House
speaker's office our phone calls and
emails were not returned meanwhile if
and when a deal is reached it will then
head off to the Senate next week and as
we heard from Senate Majority Leader
Mitch McConnell senators will be there
to vote on it
Tracy thank you Eric correspondent Erik
Rosales reporting from Capitol Hill